# Bearer Authorization
Bearer authentication (also called token authentication) is an HTTP authentication scheme that involves security tokens called bearer tokens. The name “Bearer authentication” can be understood as “give access to the bearer of this token.” The bearer token is a cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request. The client must send this token in the Authorization header when making requests to protected resources:
`Authorization: Bearer <token>`

The Bearer authentication scheme was originally created as part of OAuth 2.0 in RFC 6750, but is sometimes also used on its own. Similarly to Basic authentication, Bearer authentication should only be used over HTTPS (SSL).

# JSON Web Tokens
JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.

**When should you use JSON Web Tokens?**
* Authorization
* Information Exchange

**What is the JSON Web Token structure?**

In its compact form, JSON Web Tokens consist of three parts separated by dots (.), which are:

* Header
* Payload
* Signature
Therefore, a JWT typically looks like the following.

xxxxx.yyyyy.zzzzz

`Header`
The header typically consists of two parts: the type of the token, which is JWT, and the signing algorithm being used, such as HMAC SHA256 or RSA.

`Payload`
The second part of the token is the payload, which contains the claims. Claims are statements about an entity (typically, the user) and additional data. There are three types of claims: registered, public, and private claims.

`Signature`
To create the signature part you have to take the encoded header, the encoded payload, a secret, the algorithm specified in the header, and sign that.